most vertebrates have evolved tiny
delicate ear bones or ossicles and
mammals have three of them these are the
human ossicles as well as being very
fragile they're the smallest bones in
our body they're made up of the malleus
incus an estate piece these bones work
together to form a vibrating chain
passing sand waves from the malleus to
the incus to the stay piece and because
the ossicles are arranged as a system of
levers a small force at one end becomes
a larger force of the other so not only
is a sound wave passed through to the
inner ear the sound is amplified and
what's more the composition of these
tiny bones is different to every other
bone in a human skeleton bone is
essentially made up of two components an
organic parts collagen which provides
the flexibility and a mineral one
calcium phosphate which gives the bone
rigidity these different compounds are
found in varying degrees in almost every
bone in our body now these little bones
here are really
mineral rich and this makes them really
hard but quite fragile this would be
useless and something like our femur in
our thigh because all that weight
bearing and twisting it was simply
shatter but whereas these little bones
are protected deep with inside the skull
by being very hard allows them to
transfer and conduct sound perfectly so
the chemical composition of bone and the
way the three ossicles work together
makes an extremely efficient hearing
system transmitting 60% of the sound
energy that hits the eardrum to the
inner ear
[Music]
you